Started rewriting YAML code anatomy (#122)
SuffolkLITLab/docassemble-AssemblyLine-documentation: docs/weaver_code_anatomy.md

slug: /generated_yaml
---

:::warning
This page is very much under construction as we develop the weaver's capabilities. These 🚧 emoji notes features that are being actively developed in the Weaver and thus might change
:::

> The code generated by [ALWeaver](https://apps-test.suffolklitlab.org/start/assemblylinewizard/assembly_line/#/1&new_session=1) is just a starting point. It uses the [labels and variables you added to your documents](doc_vars_reference.md) to make an interview that uses questions and features from the AssemblyLine library.

Reviewer: No need to change this tiny thing, but just a note that `generated by` is passive voice.

This page breaks down what each of these "blocks" (the sections of text that appear between `---`s)
do individually. You shouldn't have to think about every block as you develop your interview, but as

> you use more advanced features of [docassemble](https://docassemble.org), knowing what these blocks do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you use more advanced features of [docassemble](https://docassemble.org), knowing what these blocks
```

will help.

## Include

> Imports the AssemblyLine package, and the jurisdiction and organization packages that you checked in the Weaver. By default, the jurisdiction package is ALMassachusetts, and the organization package is  the MassAccess package. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imports the AssemblyLine package, as well as the jurisdiction and organization packages that you picked in the Weaver. By default, the jurisdiction package is ALMassachusetts, and the organization package is the MassAccess package.
```

> As described in the [docassemble documentation](https://docassemble.org/docs/initial.html#include), this incorporates the questions in these YAML files, as if the contents of those files were copy pasted right in this block. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As described in the [docassemble documentation](https://docassemble.org/docs/initial.html#include), when you run the interview docassemble acts as if the whole contents of these listed YAML files has been copied and pasted in this exact spot.
```

Reviewer: I was a bit confused by this. I'm not sure my version is better. Take it or leave it as you wish. Also, we might just want to leave out our own explanation and just leave the link to the documentation.

Author: I reorganized this section a bit, and took some of your suggestions. Let me know what you think.

Reviewer: Looking much better and really close!

This gives you access to all of the pre-created questions in AssemblyLine.

```yml
include:
  - docassemble.AssemblyLine:al_package.yml
  - docassemble.ALMassachusetts:al_massachusetts.yml
  - docassemble.MassAccess:massaccess.yml
---
```

## Metadata

> As the comment says, these [metadata block](https://docassemble.org/docs/initial.html#metadata) values control two things:

Reviewer: I think this PR removes the comment that you're referencing here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This [metadata block](https://docassemble.org/docs/initial.html#metadata) values control two things:
```

:::

The [ALWeaver](https://apps-test.suffolklitlab.org/start/ALWeaver/assembly_line/#/1&new_session=1) generates code that is a starting point. It uses the [labels and variables you added to your documents](doc_vars_reference.md) to make an interview that uses questions and features from the AssemblyLine library.

This page breaks down what each of these "blocks" (the sections of text that appear between `---`s)
do individually. You don't have to think about every block as you develop your interview, but as
you use more advanced features of [docassemble](https://docassemble.org/docs.html), knowing more about these blocks 
will help.

## Include
An include block incorporates content (code blocks, questions blocks, etc.) from other YAML files. When you run the interview, docassemble acts as if all of the content in the YAML files listed below was copied and pasted right in this exact spot. 
This is described in more detail in the [docassemble documentation](https://docassemble.org/docs/initial.html#include).

> This include block includes the AssemblyLine package, as well as the jurisdiction and organization packages that you picked in the Weaver. By default, the jurisdiction package is ALMassachusetts, and the organization package is the MassAccess package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `include` block includes the AssemblyLine package, giving you access to all of the pre-created questions in AssemblyLine. It also adds the jurisdiction and organization packages that you picked in the Weaver. By default, the jurisdiction package is ALMassachusetts, and the organization package is the MassAccess package.
```

> This gives you access to all of the pre-created questions in AssemblyLine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    "attachment block variable": "a_258e_motion_for_impoundment_attachment",
    "typical role": "plaintiff",
  })
---
```

1. `title`, `short title`, and `description` allow your organization's site to show more information about your form and to organize your forms more easily.
1. `original_form` is simply a link to the original, fillable PDF form that this interview is automating, if it exists.
1. 🚧 `allowed courts` allows your code to decide which courts to let the user pick from when they need to pick their court, usually used in conjunction with [AL Generic Jurisdiction](https://github.com/SuffolkLITLab/docassemble-ALGenericJurisdiction).
1. `categories` is the [LIST taxonomy](https://taxonomy.legal/) code for this interview, which can be used by your organization to organize your interviews.
1. `attachment block variable` used to be used in the code that sends documents to courts, but now the [ALDocument object block](#aldocument-object-block) is used instead.
1. `logic block variable` should also no longer be used.
1. `typical role`: controls which questions the user gets asked about themselves and other parties. 

## Main intro page

> Adds this text to the organization's intro page that appears at the beginning of every interview. This lets your user know right away that they have gotten to the right (or wrong) form. Note that this can (and should) be a more direct and detailed call to action, e.g. ("File a ___" or "Ask the court for ____"), rather than a simple short title, like the short title in the [metadata block](#metadata).

Reviewer: Formatting
```suggestion
Adds this text to the organization's intro page that appears at the beginning of every interview. This lets your user know right away that they have gotten to the right (or wrong) form. Note that this can (and should) be a more direct and detailed call to action, e.g. ("File a \_\_\_\_" or "Ask the court for \_\_\_\_"), rather than a simple short title, like the short title in the [metadata block](#metadata).
```

  if not defined("interview_metadata['a_258e_motion_for_impoundment']"):
    interview_metadata.initializeObject('a_258e_motion_for_impoundment')
  interview_metadata['a_258e_motion_for_impoundment'].update({
    "al_weaver_version": "0.82",
    "generated on": "2021-05-28",
    "title": "209a 258e motion for impoundment",
    "short title": "209a 258e motion for impoundment",
    "description": "209a 258e motion for impoundment",
    "original_form": "",
    "allowed courts": [
      "Land Court",
    ],
    "categories": [

>       "BE-04-00-00-00",

Reviewer: Why do we have our own place for these LIST tags? Docassemble seems to already have a place for them in metadata. Maybe a question for a different time, though.

Author: :shrug:   Definitely out of scope for this PR

Author: Also, I think it's so we can still view the categories of combined interviews. Not sure if there's a way to keep information from multiple metadata blocks from different interviews without this block.

    ],
    "logic block variable": "a_258e_motion_for_impoundment",
    "attachment block variable": "a_258e_motion_for_impoundment_attachment",
    "typical role": "plaintiff",
  })
---
```

> 1. `title`, `short title`, and `description` allow your organization's site to show more information about your form and to organize your forms more easily.

Reviewer: I think it might be helpful to stay consistent about where the explanation comes - either before the block or after the block. I think I see what you're getting at here - listing the individual items makes more sense after the block. Maybe this can be alleviated by having a short sentence right before the block. I do think consistency in that kind of thing can help, though.

Reviewer: I also think it might be useful to explain `short_title` explicitly. People don't seem to know what it is.

Author: Good point about the consistency. I like the short introduction, then the full code, then line by line.

1. `original_form` is simply a link to the original, fillable PDF form that this interview is automating, if it exists.
1. 🚧 `allowed courts` allows your code to decide which courts to let the user pick from when they need to pick their court, usually used in conjunction with [AL Generic Jurisdiction](https://github.com/SuffolkLITLab/docassemble-ALGenericJurisdiction).
1. `categories` is the [LIST taxonomy](https://taxonomy.legal/) code for this interview, which can be used by your organization to organize your interviews.
1. `attachment block variable` used to be used in the code that sends documents to courts. It's now deprecated in favor of the [ALDocument object block](#aldocument-object-block)

> 1. `logic block variable` is also deprecated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `logic block variable` should also no longer be used.
```

Reviewer: An attempt to use more plain language in our own stuff as well.

> 1. `typical role`: controls which questions the user gets asked, and serves the same purpose as the code in the [interview order block](#interview-order)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `typical role`: controls which questions the user gets asked about themselves and other parties, and serves the same purpose as the code in the [interview order block](#interview-order)
```

Author: Took out the part about serving the same purpose, it's pretty different (order of questions is never really changed, just the content)

Reviewer: Would it still be useful to clarify what kinds of questions it affects? 'gets asked about themselves and other parities'?

I also like how you put it in your comment - it controls the **content** of the questions.

Author: I did keep the `gets asked about themselves and other parties`. 

And fair. I'm not gonna add the content distinction though, it's a bit advanced for this (already complicated) overview.

## Main intro page

> Adds this text to the organization's intro page that appears at the beginning of every interview. This lets your user know right away that they have gotten to the right (or wrong) form. Note that this can (and should) be different from the short title in the [metadata block](#metadata)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds this text to the organization's intro page that appears at the beginning of every interview. This lets your user know right away that they have gotten to the right (or wrong) form. Note that this should often be more descriptive than the short title in the [metadata block](#metadata).
```

Reviewer: Want to know in what way should it be different.

Author: Good point. I think we wanted to specifically go for action oriented titles, so I mentioned that as well.

```

## Navigation

> [`navigation`](https://docassemble.org/docs/initial.html#navigation%20bar) and [`sections`](https://docassemble.org/docs/initial.html#sections) work with [`nav.set_section()`](https://docassemble.org/docs/functions.html#DANav.show_sections) to show the column on the left that lets your users jump to a screen that lets them edit their information in your interview. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`navigation`](https://docassemble.org/docs/initial.html#navigation%20bar) and [`sections`](https://docassemble.org/docs/initial.html#sections) works with [`nav.set_section()`](https://docassemble.org/docs/functions.html#DANav.show_sections) to show the column on the left that lets your users jump to a screen that lets them edit their information in your interview. In longer interviews, it can also be a roadmap of what the user will have to do and where they are now.
```

Author: Subject is plural (navigation and sections), so `work` should be right.

> Avoids using the 'Back' button which deletes answers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It helps users avoid using the 'Back' button which deletes their answers.
```

> By default, there is a single "Review" section, that covers the whole interview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, there is a single "Review" section, that covers the whole interview. In longer interviews, adding more sections can show the user a roadmap of what they will have to do and where they are now.
```

## Interview order
Controls the order in which your screens are shown.

The full interview order block will look something like this. We'll go over each line individually below.

```yml
id: interview_order_a_258e_motion_for_impoundment
code: |
  # Set the allowed courts for this interview
  allowed_courts = interview_metadata["a_258e_motion_for_impoundment"]["allowed courts"]
  nav.set_section('review_a_258e_motion_for_impoundment')
  user_role = 'plaintiff'
  one_of_your_custom_questions
  users[0].phone_number
  another_of_your_custom_questions
  # Set the answer file name.
  set_parts(subtitle=str(users))
  set_progress(16.67)
  trial_court.division
  interview_order_a_258e_motion_for_impoundment = True
---
```

1. `allowed_courts` allows the developer to limit which courts the person filling out the form can pick from, making it easier for them to pick the right court. By default, it's using the same values that are in the [metadata block](#assemblyline-metadata).

> 1. `nav.set_section()` comes after `al_intro_screen` and `a_258e_motion_for_impoundment_intro` so that the user can't click to edit their answers before they've actually been asked any questions.

Reviewer: Should the nav be left inactive until _after_ the first substantial question the user answers?

Probably an issue for another time. If all they've done is passed two informational screens, they still don't have any answers to edit yet.

Author: Definitely out of scope here too.

My thoughts are that the interface should stay the same and not change on if they don't have any answers to edit. They should be able to click, and see "oh, yeah, there's nothing to edit yet", rather than a button popping up several questions in. So I guess IMO, `nav.set_section()` should come before the interview intro, after the `al_intro_screen` where we get consent to handle the data.

> 1. `user_role` tells AssemblyLine which questions to ask about the main party listed on the form.

Reviewer: I'm curious - what relation does `user_role` have to `typical role`?

Author: I think `user_role` is the runtime variable, and `typical role` is the "compile time" value. If [typical role anything but 'unknown'](https://github.com/SuffolkLITLab/docassemble-AssemblyLine/blob/48705945f9336adce66c62140bdc3cfa9f8c0ac1/docassemble/AssemblyLine/data/questions/al_code.yml#L175), then user_role is just set to that, and if it is unknown, then we ask for the `user_role`. I only assume we set it in the weaver because it's clearer what's happening, without a bunch of DA magic happening behind the scenes, and maybe for backwards compatibility?

Reviewer: #134

> Code for your pages comes next. All your questions should be triggered in here. You will probably make major edits to the code here, changing the order and adding branching logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code for your custom questions comes next. All your questions should be triggered in here. You will probably make major edits to the code here, changing the order and adding branching logic.
```

> 1. `set_parts(subtitle=str(users))` adds to the information a logged in user will listed for this interview in their list of interviews. For an attorney, they should see the name of their clients. For a self represented litigant, they should see their name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `set_parts(subtitle=str(users))` adds to the information a logged in user will see listed for this interview in their list of interviews. For an attorney, they should see the name of their clients. For a self represented litigant, they should see their name.
```

1. `set_progress()` changes the progress bar shown to the person who's interacting with the form. When they are at the beginning of the form, it should be empty. When they are at the end, other code will make sure it is full. The [ALWeaver](https://apps-test.suffolklitlab.org/start/assemblylinewizard/assembly_line/#/1&new_session=1) tries to handle intermediate values between those two places that will make sense to the user. The example interview is short, so intermediate progress is only set once.

> 1. This final variable is customized for your interview. It lets you trigger all the code in this entire code block. If you are including this interview in another interview, you can use this variable to trigger this particular question order. It is also triggered in the [main order block](#main-order)

Reviewer: ```
The final variable in the block is customized for your interview. It lets you trigger all the code in this entire code block. In this generated code, the [main order block](#main-order) triggers it. If you are including this interview in another interview, remove the main order block. Then you can use this variable if you want to trigger this particular question order.
```

## Main Order

> This block controls the higher-level order of the interview, anything that isn't questions specific to your interview, like intro screens, signatures, etc. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This block controls the higher-level order of the interview. It controls the order of things that are not customized for your interview, like intro screens, signatures, etc.
```

You shouldn't have to change that code unless you are 🚧 combining multiple interviews together 🚧.

```yml
mandatory: True
id: main_order_a_258e_motion_for_impoundment
code: |
  al_intro_screen
  a_258e_motion_for_impoundment_intro
  # Interview order block has form-specific logic controlling order/branching
  interview_order_a_258e_motion_for_impoundment_intro
  signature_date
  # Save (anonymized) interview statistics.
  store_variables_snapshot(data={'zip': users[0].address.zip})
  a_258e_motion_for_impoundment_preview_question  # Pre-canned preview screen
  basic_questions_signature_flow
  users[0].signature
  a_258e_motion_for_impoundment_download
---
```

1. `signature_date` is the date that the user signed the form, and is needed on every form that has a signature.

> 1. `store_variables_snapshot()` lets you gather data about this interview session. _You should be very thoughtful  about what you store, and care must be taken to anonymize it_. Just removing a name is not sufficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `store_variables_snapshot()` lets you gather data about this interview session. _You should be very thoughtful about what you store, and care must be taken to anonymize it_. Just removing a name is not sufficient.

If you want to avoid asking the user for their address, you will need to change the information you save here. This code forces the user's address to be asked.
```

If you are including this interview in another interview, remove the main order block. Then you can use this variable if you want to trigger this particular question order.

## Main Order
This block controls the order of things that do not need to be customized for your specific interview, like intro screens, signatures, etc. 
You shouldn't have to change that code unless you are 🚧 combining multiple interviews together 🚧.

```yml
mandatory: True
id: main_order_a_258e_motion_for_impoundment
code: |
  al_intro_screen
  a_258e_motion_for_impoundment_intro
  # Interview order block has form-specific logic controlling order/branching
  interview_order_a_258e_motion_for_impoundment_intro
  signature_date
  # Save (anonymized) interview statistics.
  store_variables_snapshot(data={'zip': users[0].address.zip})
  a_258e_motion_for_impoundment_preview_question  # Pre-canned preview screen
  basic_questions_signature_flow
  users[0].signature
  a_258e_motion_for_impoundment_download
---
```

There is some AssemblyLine code that comes after your own custom interview order code. You will probably leave this code alone as well:

> 1. `set_parts(subtitle=str(users))` adds to the information a logged in user will listed for this interview in their list of interviews. For an attorney, they should see the name of their clients. For a self represented litigant, they should see their name.

Reviewer: Is this meant to be repeated?
```suggestion
```

> 1. `set_progress()` changes the progress bar shown to the person who's interacting with the form. When they are at the beginning of the form, it should be empty. When they are at the end, other code will make sure it is full. The [ALWeaver](https://apps-test.suffolklitlab.org/start/ALWeaver/assembly_line/#/1&new_session=1) tries to handle intermediate values between those two places that will make sense to the user. The example interview is short, so intermediate progress is only set once.

Reviewer: Is this also meant to be repeated?
```suggestion
```

---
```

## Attachments

### ALDocument

Leave this block as it is if possible. Prepares to use this document in the `ALDocumentBundle`.

> Usually you need to make several different attachment blocks for a PDF: a preview without a signature and the final document with a signature. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually you need to make at least two different attachment blocks for a PDF: a preview without a signature and the final document with a signature.
```
